---
layout: api
api_metadata:
  apiVersion: "tilt.dev/v1alpha1"
  import: "github.com/tilt-dev/tilt/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1"
  kind: "Tiltfile"
content_type: "api_reference"
description: "Tiltfile is the main way users add services to Tilt."
title: "Tiltfile v1alpha1"
weight: 7
---

`apiVersion: tilt.dev/v1alpha1`

`import "github.com/tilt-dev/tilt/pkg/apis/core/v1alpha1"`




## Tiltfile {#Tiltfile}


Tiltfile is the main way users add services to Tilt.

The Tiltfile evaluator executes the Tiltfile, then adds all the objects it creates as children of the Tiltfile object.

<hr>

- **apiVersion**: tilt.dev/v1alpha1


- **kind**: Tiltfile


- **metadata** ([ObjectMeta](../meta/object-meta#ObjectMeta))


- **spec** ([TiltfileSpec](../core/tiltfile-v1alpha1#TiltfileSpec))


- **status** ([TiltfileStatus](../core/tiltfile-v1alpha1#TiltfileStatus))






## TiltfileSpec {#TiltfileSpec}


TiltfileSpec defines the desired state of Tiltfile

<hr>

- **path** (string), required

  The path to the Tiltfile on disk.

- **args** ([]string)

  Arguments to the Tiltfile.
  
  Arguments can be positional (['a', 'b', 'c']) or flag-based ('--to-edit=a'). By default, a list of arguments indicates the list of services in the tiltfile that should be enabled.

- **labels** (map[string]string)

  A set of labels to apply to all objects owned by this Tiltfile.

- **restartOn** (RestartOnSpec)

  Objects that can trigger a re-execution of this Tiltfile.

  <a name="RestartOnSpec"></a>
  *RestartOnSpec indicates the set of objects that can trigger a restart of this object.*

  - **restartOn.fileWatches** ([]string)

    FileWatches that can trigger a restart.

  - **restartOn.uiButtons** ([]string)

    UIButtons that can trigger a restart.





## TiltfileStatus {#TiltfileStatus}


TiltfileStatus defines the observed state of Tiltfile

<hr>

- **running** (TiltfileStateRunning)

  Details about a running tiltfile.

  <a name="TiltfileStateRunning"></a>
  *TiltfileStateRunning is a running state of a tiltfile execution.*

  - **running.reasons** ([]string)

    The reason why this tiltfile was built. May contain more than one reason.

  - **running.startedAt** (MicroTime)

    Time at which previous execution of the command started.

    <a name="MicroTime"></a>
    *MicroTime is version of Time with microsecond level precision.*

- **terminated** (TiltfileStateTerminated)

  Details about a terminated tiltfile.

  <a name="TiltfileStateTerminated"></a>
  *TiltfileStateTerminated is a terminated state of a tiltfile execution.*

  - **terminated.error** (string)

    Error message if this tiltfile execution failed.

  - **terminated.finishedAt** (MicroTime)

    Time at which the command last terminated.

    <a name="MicroTime"></a>
    *MicroTime is version of Time with microsecond level precision.*

  - **terminated.reasons** ([]string)

    The reasons why this tiltfile was built. May contain more than one reason.

  - **terminated.startedAt** (MicroTime)

    Time at which previous execution of the command started.

    <a name="MicroTime"></a>
    *MicroTime is version of Time with microsecond level precision.*

  - **terminated.warningCount** (int32)

    Number of warnings generated by this Tiltfile. (brief) reason the process is terminated

- **waiting** (TiltfileStateWaiting)

  Details about a waiting tiltfile.

  <a name="TiltfileStateWaiting"></a>
  *TiltfileStateWaiting is a waiting state of a tiltfile execution.*

  - **waiting.reason** (string)

    (brief) reason the tiltfile is waiting.





## TiltfileList {#TiltfileList}


TiltfileList

<hr>

- **apiVersion**: tilt.dev/v1alpha1


- **kind**: TiltfileList


- **metadata** ([ListMeta](../meta/list-meta#ListMeta))


- **items** ([][Tiltfile](../core/tiltfile-v1alpha1#Tiltfile)), required









<hr>



